Thank you.
Hello and welcome to Veterans of the Valley.
I'm Tom Turveyville.
Gordon Kennedy had seen a lot of the world during his 31 years of military service, service that included a 15-month tour during Korea during that war, and then a year in Saigon near the end of the Vietnam War.
When he left his final tour of duty in Jamaica, he had hardly even heard of Bryan, Texas.
It was his next duty assignment as an intelligence specialist.
He and his wife of 57 years, Lucille, have been here ever since.
Please welcome Gordon Kennedy.
to Veterans of the Valley.
Gordon, it's a pleasure to have you on Veterans of the Valley.
You were born in Niagara Falls, so you're a New York guy before you finally made it down here.
Talk about you graduated from high school in 1949, the same year that you entered the service.
Right.
Times were tough in New York in those days, and there was very little employment.
So I had a friend that had been in, was going back in as well.
He and I, he really enlisted and I enlisted.
And from there on, there was the United States Army.
That's right, that's right.
You just made an observation to me about the difference between the World War II veteran and the veteran that you were that came along a little bit later.
Tell us that again.
Well, you know, World War II vets,
drafted or were enlisted to go to war.
My story, veterans of my time, was a little different.
We enlisted just to get a job, most of us, and eventually became a career with me.
So there's quite a difference in reasoning about service.
They were there to fight the war.
You needed to make a living.
And indeed you did for 31 years in the Army.
You actually got a little bit of the influence of World War II after you went to Fort Hood.
One of your first duties was at Tokyo at General MacArthur's headquarters.
So in a way, you sort of caught a little bit of the occupation of World War II.
Yeah, I missed getting the medal by about three or four days.
I was only there 28 days.
You had to be there 30 to get the occupation medal.
Talk about, though, your training.
Where was basic training?
In Fort Dix, New Jersey.
In Fort Dix, and then you went to Fort Hood and then to Tokyo.
Korea broke out in July of 1950, and you found yourself headed that way.
Started talking about getting over there and what your duties were.
Well, we made Incheon Landing in early September, I believe.
And we, the headquarters, stayed around Incheon for about a month.
Then we disembarked onto another troop ship and went around to Wansan.
And set up headquarters there, I can't remember just how long.
It's been a long time.
And then we took a
narrow-gauge railroad to Ung-Nam.
And then we set up our major headquarters there.
And from there you get pretty rough.
Yeah.
They said that it was a secure, it was advertised as secure.
Oh yeah.
It wasn't as secure as they advertised.
As an intelligence specialist, more specific, sort of what was your job?
Well, I didn't become an intelligence specialist until many years later.
Right.
But I was more or less the G2 sergeant the first time I went to a military attache office in the American embassies.
And like most G2 people, we reviewed documents, wrote reports for the attaches.
I didn't really get involved in the intelligence gathering right off the bat.
Exactly, exactly.
Well, we'll talk about that later.
I want to go back to Korea.
When you had gone on this railroad up to Hung Nam, you talked about that one of your jobs was as a messenger.
Yeah, from the Corps headquarters and the 1st Marine Division.
Of course, they were on the line.
poor devils all the time.
And on one of my trips up there, the Chinese broke through, surrounded the area, and the Marines had to fight their way out.
And I was just tidying it along.
I never fired a rifle, I had it, but I was not an infantryman.
I wasn't very experienced in fighting, quite frankly.
But I knew how to move with them.
They passed through our lines just covered in ice.
Wow.
Frozen.
Terrible.
The Marines were.
I know this time in this particular incident that you talk about, and it's hard, it's emotional, obviously, for anybody in war, as it would be for anybody, but as best you can.
Was it Kotori?
Kotori, yeah.
Kotori, and you found yourself surrounded.
Right.
Well, surrounded in the fact that the whole division
north of the Chosun River, or Chosun Reservoir, I'm sorry.
Right.
Down to there was, that was where we really make the breakout Iskoturi.
Right, right.
And they incurred 12,000 casualties, dead and missing.
Right.
And the 31st Infantry Division, Infantry Battalion was up there also.
They got very little credit for it, but they were there.
They lost a lot of men.
How did you come to survive?
Who knows?
Who knows.
I tagged along with a group and we walked out.
You were with the right group?
Yeah, with the right group.
Indeed, I know it will move on, but it's part of your service, obviously, and it certainly is.
You got out, they dumped you on some cargo ships, and let's talk about the weather, because about this time, we're talking, what, January, February?
Well, it was December, early December.
And it was just bitterly cold.
Oh, yeah, they put us on that cargo ship, and, you know, they have just these covers they push over the holes.
Right.
and they just half closed it and we were down in there they issued us sea rations for the trip down to busan and we hit heavy weather and the ocean just splashed over the decks right down in on not particularly on me i was out back to the rear but on some of them poor devils they just got soaked to the bone pneumonia i don't i wouldn't believe all of them survived i don't really know right but
Then we disembarked in Pusan.
I think it was two days.
I'm really not clear about that, but I think it was a two-day trip down there.
Well, as was the case in a lot in war, even World War II people will tell you that fighting the elements was sometimes as tough as fighting the enemy, and you certainly saw that.
You went home in January of 1951, and you had, before you ever
actually got out of school, you had met Lucille and you had dated and then you got home and you married her in 1952.
Right.
Tell me about, tell us about Lucille, about your wife.
You all have been married some 57 years.
Oh, she's, she's been a good wife.
I mean, we got, as I say, we got married in 52 and she traveled with me.
Right.
There was only one trip overseas she didn't make.
That was when I was in Vietnam.
But she went to Taiwan with me.
That was a delayed trip.
She come over after I went.
But every place else, we traveled together.
And she fit right in with the embassy community.
She was really a fine host.
And you got to remember, she was a young lady in the early days, you know.
She really conducted herself in an amazing fashion.
And she was ready to follow this guy that she loved all over the world, because she knew that her life would change a lot, right?
You went to Fort Benning to train.
What they were doing was training second lieutenants to actually go back to Korea, but you pretty much had your fill of that.
Yeah, I put 12 weeks in OCS, and I got to think.
I got a little wiser.
They were training, as I said, they were training cannon fodder.
So I resigned and was reassigned right there as a cadre.
Right, right.
And then a piece of paper came across your desk where you saw that there was an opening in Atlanta.
Right.
And this was actually going to be your first of two tours that would be in Atlanta.
Talk about this first one and what you did there.
Well, I went into supply.
It was a reserve unit.
It was a reserve headquarters that was in charge of all the reserves in Georgia.
We had troops, units that met in the building that we worked in.
And I was more or less their supply advisor.
I did the work for them.
And it lasted about three years.
And as I told you earlier, another piece of paper come across the desk.
We laughed about that a little bit earlier.
You were in these jobs, I guess, clerk-type jobs to where you were at a desk and you sort of found out about these deployments before anybody else did.
So you got a little jump on things.
Right.
They were premium assignments.
And the next piece of paper that came across your desk talked about a position in Taiwan, right?
Right.
It was military assistance.
And I was signed there.
Again, I was a sergeant major in the
in the G1 office.
Right.
I wasn't a sergeant major by rank, but by position I was.
And again, we served there for a little over three years.
It was a good assignment, rather mundane, you know.
Yeah.
Nothing exciting.
Right.
I guess it was the first overseas assignment that you took your wife and child.
Yes.
Well, she followed.
That's the assignment she followed.
She followed.
I went over there and
September, and she followed in October or November sometime.
Right, right, with your son Richard.
Right.
At the time.
That was her first boat ride and first time I ever out of the country.
Yeah.
Practically out of the county where she grew up.
Right.
That must have been a change for her.
Yeah, uh-huh.
It certainly was.
Right.
You were sergeant major in the general's office there, and then you went back to the States at Fort Rucker, Alabama, and that sort of led to your next tour in Atlanta.
Is that right?
Well, I never went to Rucker.
That's right.
The general that we had in Taiwan took over the reserve program in the state of Georgia, and I was good friends with his secretary.
I see.
And I told her, I said, when I come back, I'd like a job there.
So I talked to the general while he still was in Taiwan, and he said, well, stop by and we'll see what we can do.
That's all he could promise me.
But it worked out.
I got my job there.
You got the job back in Atlanta.
So you were back there.
Right.
So your tour took you.
But you weren't there long, about another, what, three years or so?
No, I wasn't there.
In fact, the officer I worked for was not very pleased that I wanted to leave.
I'd only been there a year.
Oh, okay.
But I went to, this is when I entered the intelligence service.
Right.
I was sent to Washington.
To the embassy there.
No, I went there for training.
Right, okay.
And then from there I went to Poland.
I see.
The embassy in Poland.
Yeah.
And this is sort of where your globe hopping really sort of started there.
Poland, Hong Kong, Damascus, Finland.
Right.
Sort of take us a little globe hopping with you a little bit.
Well, excuse me.
From Poland, as I said, we did
three years there, that was during the Berlin crisis.
But when we left there, I went back, we went back to the United States, and I did a couple weeks refresher course, and then we went on to Hong Kong.
And same thing, my job primarily, I was copying books, all these books that come out of China, and I was photographing them all, you know, so.
I and my little cubby hole all by myself down in the basement, which was, I couldn't read any of it, but I photographed it all.
And that went on for a long time.
But anyways, from there, you know, it's starting to fade.
From there, we went to... You mentioned Hong Kong and Damascus, and you also mentioned Finland.
Yeah, well, we went to...
Oh, we left Hong Kong on assignment to Washington where they commissioned me as a warrant officer.
Okay.
And then I, from there we moved to Damascus.
And that was during the Seven Day War.
Right.
Well, that's what it mounted to.
We got there in January and got kicked out in July, June or July.
Right.
seeing the tanks roll up to the city limit, the Israeli tanks, dogfighting over the city.
But anyways, we got out of there pretty safely.
Left everything in place.
My wife had a cat.
She left all her furniture, all her groceries.
And she went to Athens before me, and I was evacuated to Rome.
But we finally got together in Athens and went back to the States and I was reassigned to Helsinki.
And what a lush job that was.
Beautiful.
You like Finland.
You like the people there.
You speak very highly, not only the country, but the people.
People were just absolutely fantastic.
So you wouldn't mind being assigned to Finland tomorrow?
I'd go tomorrow, yes.
Eventually you came back from Europe to the United States to near home, to Rochester.
Yeah, I did a job tour there as an investigator.
It wasn't one of our happy times.
My wife lost her parents and I lost mine.
But other than that, it was routine stuff.
Interviews, just interview after interview after interview.
And then you were deployed to Vietnam in January of 74.
We're going to get to that in a moment, but we're going to take a look at some pictures that you supplied us from some of your photo albums.
So we've got a few pictures.
Let's go ahead and go to those, and we'll see the young Gordon Kennedy.
There's you at Lucille.
You know where that was taken?
Yeah, that was taken at the Rencore Ball in Warsaw, Poland.
In Warsaw, Poland.
You look happy.
You're having a good time.
Oh, we did have a good time.
You've been dancing all night, I can tell.
Okay.
There's a couple of young kids.
You know, I don't really... Looks like he was taking one of those border photo booths or something, right?
I don't remember when that was.
Early in our marriage, that's for sure.
That just had youth written all over it, so I thought it was a good one.
Okay, let's move on.
Now, there's your wedding picture.
Wedding picture.
Handsome and beautiful.
My goodness, y'all are both very happy.
So that was in 1952.
I was just 20 years old.
Back from Korea?
No.
You know that picture?
I haven't seen that in long.
That was a picture I had to submit when I applied for a commission.
They dressed you all up in your uniform and took a picture of you.
And that was in your records jacket.
Right.
Squared away soldier.
That's right.
I was in intelligence school there.
We all were going to be assigned to different embassies throughout the country.
Right.
I'm up there in the right hand, second from the right.
Only guy in glasses.
Yeah.
The studious type.
There you go.
This was taken in Vietnam?
Yeah, this was taken.
General Homer Smith was the command general there.
In fact, he is an Aggie.
That was taken on occasion when I was about to leave.
He presented me with a decoration.
I understand he's in San Antonio now, rather ill.
That was taken an hour and hour from Korea.
I think this was in Yokohama.
I don't remember the fellow that's sitting there with me.
We hooked up there and never seen him again.
R&R, doing what you're supposed to.
That's basic training.
The fellow with me there, I know he was from New York, but I don't remember his name.
It's been a while.
Too many years.
It's been a while, Gordon.
You know, if he saw the picture and if he's still with us, he probably wouldn't remember your name either.
Probably not.
Good photographs.
Good photographs for sure.
Vietnam from January of 74 to January of 1975.
Sort of gave us a picture of Vietnam at that time because actually the
the peace accords, the armistice as it were, were actually getting in place already when you got there.
I arrived, there was one company of Marines left, and they were proceeding to leave just momentarily.
And I was one of 50 officers allowed in country at any one time, according to the courts.
And we watched
pretty close.
If an officer coming in on TDY, somebody had to leave.
It wasn't ever me, but somebody had to leave to make room for that extra body.
So we kept telling our superiors, civilian superiors, that they were coming.
Oh, no.
No.
They're not coming.
We tell them.
I mean, that's what we were there for, you know.
Right.
Intelligence.
They were coming.
Right.
And they came.
Yeah.
Sadly, after I left, I left in January of 75 is when they went out through the roof, the embassy.
Well, just prior to that, they had a big C5A there, evacuating them, the orphan children, 300-some-odd.
And I had three secretaries aboard that aircraft that I'd worked with, and then when it crashed, they were killed.
But then I had a good friend of mine, his wife, when she was Vietnamese, she finally got out, but he had to leave without her.
So it was a hard time with some folks.
I enjoyed my assignment there.
We weren't too bothered by the Viet Cong or the North Vietnamese.
They were there.
They'd float a mine down the river and blow it up along some place, but they never attempted to strike us at all.
Indeed.
You were somewhat under protection of the peace accord, right?
Well, we like to think we were, yes.
I know of only one
advisor that was killed, he was a surveyor.
He broke a roadblock and they shot him.
Right.
It must have been a very memorable time and emotional time knowing that you left in January of 75 and just three months later in April of 75 is when the
evacuation is where it took place and the very famous picture that we've all seen of the chopper on top of the roof and the people coming up the ladder to the chopper to actually see that as it was happening and know that that's where you were just three months earlier.
Yeah, I remember the compound.
I remember the flak outside of the flag bearer outside the embassy and all that.
Right.
And they had a
break-in in the embassy just before I arrived that got a couple of secretaries and one of the male killed you know but they killed all the Marines did a good job right better than you would expect them to well they were outnumbered so but they did a good job left Vietnam in January of 75 and your next deployment was Jamaica Jamaica that was a lovely place too sure still is
Yeah, when I was there, it was almost communism.
Right.
And that's the only place in the world we were ever burglarized.
We were burglarized twice.
Right.
But again, we worked pretty close with the Jamaican Armed Forces.
They didn't have much, but we worked pretty close with them.
In the supply program, you know, we supplied them with various sundry of supply equipment.
Right.
And I was more or less involved in that.
Talk about a trip you took one time with, was it with a Navy officer as an attaché?
Oh, that was in... And you nearly got in trouble.
Yeah, that was in Poland.
Oh, that was in Poland.
Yeah.
We're going to backtrack, but it's a good story.
Yeah, well, we went, it was a naval officer, naval attaché.
Right.
And he was tasked with looking at the naval ports.
and their Navy air stations.
And one time we went to a Navy air station.
I usually stayed with the car on trips, but this time he says, I'm gonna put you out here and I'm going on up the track there, see what I can see up there.
Where he put me out was right at the end of the runway.
I was in a track of trees, so you couldn't see from it.
But as I told you earlier, he had diplomatic passport and all I had was a,
of official passport.
We got caught, he got thrown out, and I went to jail as a spy, you know.
So I had to tell him, I says, Commander, this is the last time I'm gonna do this.
You didn't sign up for that.
And I didn't, yeah, and I didn't do it again.
You had a wife and family.
You didn't need to be going to jail in Poland.
That's right.
After the Jamaica deployment, you had a choice of your next deployment.
Davenport, Iowa or Bryan, Texas?
Right.
And the only thing I knew is Davenport got a lot of snow.
Uh-huh.
And so I chose Bryan.
And there was a young civilian out of shade there.
He says, oh, I was...
in Bryan College Station.
I don't remember if he said he was an Aggie or not.
I don't really remember.
He says, you're not going to like it there.
It's dry.
Well, it wasn't dry when I got here.
He hadn't been here in a while.
Yeah, right.
Well, he said he had.
Yeah.
So anyways, but it was a good thing I really came to Bryan because the next winter, they had great big floods in Davenport.
I mean, downtown was just, you know, like six foot underwater.
Right.
So we made a wise decision.
Right, right.
What was your job in Bryan?
I know you worked downtown in the federal building.
Yeah, yeah.
And again, I was a defense intelligence agent.
That's what they called us.
Right.
And I did a lot of interviews, especially out to A&M, young graduates out there getting commissioned.
They all needed security clearances.
Right.
My job was to see that they could pass one, you
These are background checks, right?
Right.
For potential officers or even civilians that would need the top clearance.
Yeah, I did, I think I had four or five counties here that I traveled in.
Right.
I had to do Huntsville, the university over there.
Blinn and Brenham.
Right.
Yeah.
And then the various out in the country.
And I even had to go to the prison one time to do it.
Right.
Doing it in the background.
Uh-huh.
Well, not a background.
I interviewed this fellow that had been named as a reference.
I see.
So I was interviewing him as a reference.
Right.
And eventually, speaking of a prison, you did some work at the Huntsville unit.
Yeah, I worked there for a year.
In Huntsville.
At the Walls unit.
I rove back every day.
Right, right.
There was one kind of scary time.
Well, yeah, I was in charge of one of these tanks, and I was talking to an inmate, and he said he was having trouble with his cellmate.
Right.
And I was letting him out for lunch as he was talking to me, and as the line passed, I heard somebody yell, knife!
And I just took a step back, one step back.
He opened my shirt.
But he wasn't after me.
It was his cellmate, and he was after him.
You just got in the way.
Yeah.
And this inmate that was talking to me, he just one poke and knocked him down.
It was all over.
You'd been in tougher situations.
Oh, yeah.
Well...
That job was going to go civilian.
You had hoped for that job.
It didn't work out.
So you stayed in civil service, as it were, and you were at the post office for 10 years.
10 years, right.
At the Bryan Post Office.
And then retired in 1991.
Retired and still living at the...
at the home where you retired.
And you've been very, very involved with the Veterans of Foreign War.
Yeah, for 20 years off and on.
Commander a couple of times?
Commander a couple of times.
They're finance officer, quartermaster.
a good number of years.
Right.
But, you know, as time goes on, you get wore out, you kind of want to kick back a few years, you know, so I retired from that too.
Retired from that too.
Retired, I just faded away.
Right.
Like General MacArthur.
Talk about your family.
I know your daughter, Holly, lives in Arlington.
Right.
And your son, Richard, who was in the service and actually was at Desert Storm.
Desert Storm.
Yeah, he retired.
20 years service.
He wanted to be near mom, so he come here and brought his family with him.
He lives here in town.
Works for the First National Bank for 12 years, I think, or something like that.
Right, right.
And between Holly and Richard, you all have, what, four grandkids?
We have four grandkids and two great-grandchildren.
And two great-grandchildren.
Right.
Rounded it out pretty nice.
And I know that you're proud of all of them.
Oh, yes, yes.
I sure am.
31 years in service, if you had to do over again, you'd do exactly that, right?
Yes, I would.
It was good to me.
I don't regret a minute of it.
We're out of time, but I want to thank you for your service.
Okay, thank you.
And thank you for being with us.
Thank you for having me here.
Gordon Kennedy says that if he could go back to his Army job as an intelligence specialist, he would do it tomorrow.
The career path he chose nearly 60 years ago as a way to make a living indeed became his passion, as has his volunteer service with the VFW.
We salute Gordon Kennedy for his service to our country.
I'm Tom Turberville.
Join us next time on Veterans of the Valley.